# ZAbbrevMaker
Tool to make better abbreviations for ZIL and the z-machine. Input is the zap-files that results from compiling the zil-files. Typical workflow for Zilf:

    zilf.exe game.zil
    del game_freq.zap
    ZAbbrevMaker.exe > game_freq.xzap
    zapf.exe game.zap
    
Typical workflow for Inform6 (be sure that your gamefile includes the file abbrevs.h or paste in them directly in the gamefile):

    inform6 -r $TRANSCRIPT_FORMAT=1 <game-path>\<game>.inf
    ZAbbrevMaker.exe -i > abbrevs.h
    inform6 -e $MAX_ABBREVS=96 <game-path>\<game>.inf
    
Precompiled binaries for linux-arm, linux-x64, osx-x64, win-x86, win-x64 & win-arm in the folder /ZAbbrevMaker/bin/SingleFile/.

## Instructions

    ZAbbrevMaker 0.6
    ZAbbrevMaker [switches] [path-to-game]
    
      -a           Create a tailor-made alphabet for this game and use it as basis for
                   the abbreviations (z5+ only).
      -a0 <string> Define 26 characters for alphabet A0.
      -a1 <string> Define 26 characters for alphabet A1.
      -a2 <string> Define 23 characters for alphabet A2.
                   Experimental - works best when text encoding is in ISO-8859-1 (C0 or C1).
      -b           Throw all abbreviations that have lower score than last pick back on heap.
                   (This only occasionally improves the result, use sparingly.)
      -c0          Text character set is plain ASCII only.
      -cu          Text character set is UTF-8.
      -c1          Text character set is ISO 8859-1 (Latin1, ANSI).
      -d           Deep rounding. Try up yo 10,000 variants from discarded abbreviations
                   and see if it gives better savings on account of z-chars rounding.
      -df          Try deep rounding and then fast rounding, in that order (default).
      -f           Fast rounding. Try variants (add remove space) to abbreviations
                   and see if it gives better savings on account of z-chars rounding.
      -fd          Try fast rounding and then deep rounding, in that order.
      -i           Generate output for Inform6. This requires that the file.
                   'gametext.txt' is in the gamepath. 'gametext.txt' is generated by:
                      inform6 -r $TRANSCRIPT_FORMAT=1 <game>.inf
                   in Inform6 version 6.35 or later. -i always use -r3.
      -l nn        Maxlength of abbreviations (default = 20).
                   and see if it gives better savings on account of z-chars rounding.
      -n nn        # of abbreviations to generate (default = 96).
      -r3          Always round to 3 for fast and deep rounding. Normally rounding
                   to 6 is used for strings stored in high memory for z4+ games.
      -v           Verbose. Prints progress and intermediate results.
     path-to-game Use this path. If omitted the current path is used.
    
    ZAbbrevMaker executed without any switches in folder with zap-files is
    the same as 'ZAbbrevMaker -l 20 -df'.
    
## References
https://intfiction.org/t/highly-optimized-abbreviations-computed-efficiently/48753  
https://gitlab.com/russotto/zilabbrs  
https://github.com/hlabrand/retro-scripts  
https://www.nuget.org/packages/MoreComplexDataStructures/
